Welcome back.
It's time to create our very first link list data structure.
And let's say I wanted to create a link list that has ten pointing to five pointing to 16.
A nice little simple one.
First off, how will we go about visualizing this in a language like JavaScript that doesn't have linked
lists?
Well, we can simply say that we have a new link list.
Let's just use let here my linked list and this is going to equal to an object.
That has a head property remember?
Because the very first item in a link list.
Is the head.
And we're going to have a node.
The point of the node is to say, Hey, anything can be in the snow.
Just put anything you want.
And it's a container around this data.
So think of Node as a bucket of data.
And in this case, we can just use an object to put our data in.
All this node needs to have in a link list is a value property of what the value of the node is, plus
a next property, which is the pointer to the next node.
Now, this value can be anything we want and the next property has to be a pointer or a reference to
the next node, in which case will be an object.
So it'll be another object.
That we're going to reference in memory this way.
The value of the node can always change, but the pointers are always going to be pointing to that.
So we can change items and nothing else will change.
It will still point to that changed and updated value.
Let me show you what I mean.
We have the head here, in which case it's ten.
So we want to set ten as our value.
And this head is going to reference point to the next node, which will have a value.
Five.
Make sure I add the commas in here.
And the next volley of what do you think?
Well, the next node in the list, which is value of 16.
And next, referencing what?
Well, 16 is the tale of our link list.
So that means it has to point to no.
Or what we call null terminated.
That means it's the end of the list.
Perfect.
So this is what we want to create a linked list.
Using this as our structure, we're going to create a class called.
Class linked list and this class.
And we should be familiar with the syntax by now.
We'll have a constructor, which is the function that gets run at the very beginning when we create
the link list.
That's going to take a value.
What does that mean?
Well, when we finally say that we're creating a mai linked list, remember, we want to create this.
When I create my link list, I'm going to instantiate the class that is run the class function here,
run the constructor and create the link list.
I'm going to say linked list and then give it a value to start off the list because, well, the list
can be empty.
It has to have something.
It has to start with the head.
So in our case, we want to start it with ten.
And ideally by running this command, we've created the first part of our link list, just the ten.
Let me comment this out since we won't need it for now.
Now within this constructor we have well the this dot head reference because well we need to keep track
of the head and this head is going to simply have a value.
That equals to the value that we passed in.
That is the ten here.
And then finally the next.
And what should the next be when we first create this list?
Well, since ten is the only thing that we'll have, or one node next is going to equal no.
To begin with.
Remember constructor is all about creating the very first link list node.
What happens when we instantiate a class?
To start off my link list.
And then finally, we have two other pieces of information that we need to track.
One is this dot tail.
I remember the word.
This just refers to the link list, so it's just referring to the link list that we create.
What is the tale going to be?
Well, because we only have one item.
The head is also the tail.
So we simply say this dot head.
And by the way, I know this can get a little bit confusing.
And as we go through this video series on link lists, it is a bit hard to wrap your mind around.
So I really recommend that you code along here and do the exercises because just watching me talk about
link lists is not going to solidify your information.
It is hard to really visualize things.
So you may need to build link lists a couple of times to really get the hang of it.
But this will become second nature once you get used to the syntax and also the idea of having this
head and tail and referencing them.
Anyway, the final piece of the puzzle is if we want, we can keep track of the length of the link list.
This is optional, but I think it's good to keep track.
And because we have one item when we create this link list, because we give it a value, we'll give
it a length of one.
There we go.
If I run this.
I get an error because, well, I have this code that's not really JavaScript.
So let's comment that out and click run again.
I get undefined while because we haven't logged anything.
But if I console log.
My linked list and I run this.
Look at that.
I have a link list with a head that is value of ten.
Next is null because well, there's only one node and a tail, which is the exact same thing, pointing
to null and a length of one.
Congratulations.
We just built our very first link list.
However, it's time for a little bit of an exercise.
Our list is not complete.
Right?
We need to create this link list, so we need to be able to add five and then 16.
So my challenge to you is this.
We want to create an append.
Method and this append method is going to take a value.
And in here.
We want to write a piece of code that allows us to.
Say Konst or my link list dot append and give it a value if we look at our list of five.
To append to our current list.
So I want to be able to say append five and then.
Append.
16.
To create our completed list of ten, five and 16.
How would you go about doing that?
And I'm going to leave this for you to try out.
Remember, this may be a little bit hard and I'll provide the solution video and we'll code along.
But I do encourage you to challenge yourself and just think about what's happening and what we've done
in the constructor to create this append method.
Good luck and I'll see you in the solution.
VIDEO Bye bye.